<h2 align="center">Forum</h2>

Our project is a **web forum** designed to enhance user interaction and streamline content organization. Registered users can share posts with categorized tags, engage through likes and dislikes on both posts and comments, and easily navigate content with powerful filtering options. Built with **Go** for a fast and reliable backend, **SQLite** for lightweight yet robust data storage, and **Docker** for seamless deployment, this platform combines performance, simplicity, and scalability to deliver an exceptional user experience.

For a live preview of the project please check the link:
https://web-based-forum.fly.dev/

Some Explanations:
https://excalidraw.com/#json=aaPfOnBdAFyYjrF4KL7Gp,qf57RNVURw8aO1VGdsyJZg

## Usage

### 1. Prerequisites

| Software   | Purpose                                          | Installation Guide                                     |
|------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| **Go**     | To compile and run the application locally.      | [Install Go](https://go.dev/doc/install)               |
| **Docker** | To build and run the application in a container. | [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)  |
| **SQLite** | The application's database management system.    | [Install SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/download.html) |

### 2. Installation

Using a terminal, clone and navigate to the repository:

`git clone https://github.com/sadiqui/web-based-forum`  
`cd web-based-forum`

Then, you can run the application either locally or using Docker, access on localhost.

| Command       | Description                                                                    |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `make go`     | Runs the application locally using Go.                                         |
| `make docker` | Builds a Docker image and starts the application container.                    |
| `make clean`  | Stops container and cleans up all Docker resources related to the application. |

### 3. Database Mounting

The `-v $(PWD)/database:/app/database` option in the `docker run` or `make docker` command is used to create a volume mapping between the host machine and the container. This mapping ensures that any changes made to the database files in the container (stored in `/app/database`) are reflected on the host machine (in the `database` directory) and vice versa. This setup is particularly useful for persisting database changes made during the container's lifecycle, even after the container stops or is removed.

### 4. Dynamic Port Allocation

The application supports running on a flexible port. By default, it binds to a random available port when no specific port is specified. To set a specific port for local execution, export the PORT environment variable (e.g., `export PORT=8080`), and the application will use it. To revert to a random port, unset the variable with `unset PORT`. When running the application in Docker, specify the desired port using `PORT=<port>` in [Makefile](/Makefile). If no port is specified, Docker will default to using the random port generated by the application.